---
layout: post
title: "About Me"
date: 04-Jul-2013
categories: tbd
---

# About Me

## 4th July 2013

My name is Rachael Mogan McIntosh,   I have three children and just the one husband,   so far, and we live on the Australian coast.  Peanut is six, T-Bone is four and little Pudding is nearly two.  The chaos sometimes makes my eyes leak salty water, and my laundry rarely has the freshness of Scandinavia, but the people in my little house bring me enormous joy.  I find motherhood very pleasing and endlessly comedic. It's not easy. But neither is making a really nice croqembouche, and in my experience they both come with great rewards, although only one has custard.

When not house-working, chauffeuring, tantrum-negotiating, pondering insane toddler philosophy and writing, I like to cook,  read, listen to podcasts and watch good TV. Sometimes I get crafty. Sometimes I get thoughtful. Often I complain. It's good to have a blog for these things. I am captivated by the small details of how people live, in particular the magical, mundane, everyday intricacies of how families work.  I love to laugh, and actively seek out situations and people that make me wet my pants a little bit.

And so herewith I give you the leavings of my brain. I reserve the right to be idiotic, naive and nobby, and I apologise if at times I make you squirm. Thank you for your visit, and have a lovely day - if you are a kind person, as I'm sure almost all of you are. If you are a prick, I hope you slip on a banana peel and show your bum to a good-looking passer-by.

 

 
